The Joe Rogan experience.
You know what I want to, I'm gonna completely change the subject as if I may.
Sure. You know,
I want to talk about when you came on my radio show with philate about the moon.
Oh. Talked about the moon landing. Yeah. Yeah. But what.
I, what I think is fascinating about this, about clubs and stuff, you know,
mm-hmm <affirmative> is, uh, I, uh, you know, and I, I, I, I know I've,
I've read here and there that you, uh, you've, uh,
you've gone back on a lot of that and your conspiracy stuff. And so, yeah,
but that's, that's not.
That's not, but I can explain that too. I don't know what I'm talking about.
You know, this,
this is the thing I've zero astrosics mm-hmm <affirmative> education zero.
I don't know anything about whether or not the it's possible to put people in
the moon. I do know fuckery and I, I do know teams and I do,
I do understand when people are bullshitting people mm-hmm <affirmative> and I
think there's a lot of that with, with a lot of the NASA stuff,
a lot of the older stuff in particular,
there was a lot of manipulation of images and putting things online
that may not have actually really happened because it press releases.
And there's an image of Michael Collins from like, uh, Gemini 15. That's a, uh,
a very clear, um, image of him, uh, doing a simulation,
like in a studio with straps and harnesses,
and then someone from NASA or someone put that exact same image
image, blacked out the background and used it as a Fu of a,
of a space mm-hmm <affirmative> and it's not real, you know,
but they sold it as real. There was some overzealous like that.
That if you're conspiratoratorially minded, you might say, ah.
Once, once you start lying. Yes. You know, it's,
it'sia 51 and stuff. Yes. You know, we know they lied. Yes. Like. Yeah. And,
and that's the problem, but what I just wanted to compliment you,
and I just also think this is really interesting, you know?
So Joe Rogan believes this crazy. We didn't go to the moon. I know Joe Rogan,
we're on a, we're on a radio show together. Da, da, da, da. He's a good guy.
We did fear factor, but he believes this.
Let's let's have him talk to someone as real. So I call Phil play.
Do I don't know that well, right. But he's the baddest on him.
And he knows this. And I say, uh,
I really want you to come on my radio show and just talk to Joe Rogan about, uh,
about, um, the moon landing Moodle landing. And, uh, Phil says, oh, no problem.
We'll just go on there. We'll we'll send him straight. And I go,
I just wanna warn you, uh, have your ducks in a row. Cuz Joe's really it.
And he goes, well, Joe's, Joe's a comic, right? I, I go, yeah.
And that's your problem because Joe's better at talking than you.
Joe knows when the commercials are coming. <laugh> Joe knows how to make a joke.
And Joe knows also how to set you up and take you down. He, oh no, no, no.
It'll be no problem. I said, he understand that hemo he's a comic,
right? Yeah. Not an astrophysicist,
but you understand that he's smart and he's also,
you are going into his form. We're gonna be on radio.
This guy has done a lot of radio.
This guy's talked to a lot of people, so just have all your facts in line.
And then we're sitting there cuz you know, you were,
you were on the phone and uh, gooddo my,
it was on my podcast with me too sitting across and me and we're listening and
you come in and you come in humble and charming
and sexy and with perfect timing on everything and Phil
place starts going. I, I I'm, I go, oh man,
Joe is wrong and Joe is gonna win <laugh>.
And I said, I set this up so that, um, so that, uh,
it will be a FA it'd be fair.
My whole thing of doing this the way I bill boarded, it was,
I'm just gonna have two guys talk from two points of view.
I'm not supposed to commit that. I don't know if you remember,
but the whole show HEADSS and I go, oh, by the way,
we did land on the moon <laugh> and just tried to do this final authority
thing. And Phil said afterwards, well he, he had, I said, yeah.
And it's just that idea that you can't, you know,
his idea was there's the science team that's right. Yeah.
And then there's this goofy comic and trying to get Phil plate to understand
that a goofy comic was not a goofy comic.
And I believe that the only thing that the SATs truly test
is how good you'll be. The comedians comedian. <laugh> that kind of verbal.
It was a wonderful thing to listen to.
It was wonderful to listen to someone who I believe absolutely was
100% wrong. Yeah.
Who was just so skilled and so moral and so thoughtful and
so humble. You had everything going for you that I,
I respect except it didn't happen to be right. Well.
We don't know what happened.
We assume that what we see is what happened.
We assume that what the scientists tell us was hap was what happened.
We assume that what NASA told us was what happened when you say,
I know this happened, right? You're not always correct. Exactly.
Oftentimes. Correct. I know Kennedy got assassinated in Dallas.
I've seen the video. I know he got assassinated in Dallas.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I don't know if Lee Harvey Oswell did it. I don't know.
I assume he was involved. It seems like he was. Yeah.
Was there other people involved too? I assume there were.
And one of the reasons why I assumed there were the magic bullet, the,
and the guy who got hit with the Rick ricochet under the overpass.
But I do want you to know that I made the shot with a man laercacon oh yeah.
It could be made. Yeah. Oh, that's horses. Listen, I've talked about that in,
in, in length and also.
The heads towards that. Yeah. Yeah.
Well there's a lot of things. There's a lot of things. Um,
there's there's a lot of things we could, you know,
go over the Kennedy assassination. There's a lot of, I'm not on one.
Wait a minute, wait, wait.
A minute. Are we gonna, are we gonna solve the polarization in America?
Or are we gonna solve the Kennedy assassination or are we gonna solve the bull
landing? All of them or you wanna do all of them? Yeah. Okay.
I just wanna know what our goals were.
The moon landing is a conspiracy theories dream,
a conspiracy theorist dream because it's got everything in place.
It's got this incredible technological achievement.
It's got these three guys that look incredibly nervous at the post landing press
conference. And they, they look all sketched out.
It's got these guys that don't do interviews afterwards.
It's got no one ever lands on the moon again, after 1973 or whatever it was.
It's got all these technological achievements,
but we never get outside of Earth's atmosphere. Again.
We're always inside of Earth's orbit. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
there's so many beautiful things that conspiracy theorories can grasp a hold of.
Themem go see it's. But it doesn't mean the distance,
but it doesn't mean it didn't happen.
There's the van Allen radiation belts there's that we never even sent a chicken
in a deep space and had to come back alive. There's all these things,
but it doesn't mean it didn't happen. Right. And the, my problem was,
and this is, you know, and people said, oh, you know, you've sold out.
You're a shell now. Like, no, no, no. I'm just being honest now.
Whereas before I wasn't being honest with my,
myself and I wasn't being honest about the subject.
I do not know whether or not people went to the moon.
I was pretending that I knew that people didn't go to the moon and I was arguing
it that way. Mm-hmm <affirmative> I was on a team. Yeah. I was on team. It's.
We didn't go to the moon and you,
you really can't do that accurately. Can't be done. You,
you can say, this is what's interesting.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> this is what I find curious. This is what's weird. In fact,
there's not a single technological achievement from 1969. That's not cheaper,
easier and faster to reproduce today except going to the moon.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> like,
it's one of the rare things in life still doesn't mean it didn't happen. Right?
Like umm's razor is a slippery thing because there's weird that happens. Yeah.
And you gotta take that into account. Like there's no absolutes.
There's not one thing that you can say, well,
there is a rule and this rule must be followed and here's that rule.
It doesn't work that way. The world is made of weird stuff. And.
I'm also the, the, the idea there's, there's a thing that's changed.
There was an article in the times about this us,
and you might have even been mentioned in it. Um, there's a, uh,
a playful space of conspiracy theories.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> that it's taken me a long time to understand my daughter is
14. And she talks about, you know, her,
her father did a show called it.
And she talks about how she loves conspiracy theories. And this is from Paul.
McCartney's dead to, we didn't land on the moon to all those things,
but she sees it, which it's so hard for me to understand.
She sees it as not impacting reality,
but is a playful inter intellectual your size.
And I don't know what's going on,
but there was this wonderful article in the times.
And you were mentioned there too, but there's also another guy who does it,
who will do this, uh, to use a cliche. I can't think of a better one going,
going down the rabbit hole of conspiracy stuff,
playing around with the logic that almost feels like
a mathematical thing or a pure philosophical thing, or a,
or a angels dancing on the head of a pin thing. And, uh,
there's a quality that you have learned, um,
that my daughter has learned indirectly. I think from you,
um, through other people doing this of there is a playful space.
We discuss how we, uh,
how we share our reality that is happening
in the conspiracy theory, art form.
And the conspiracy theory art form is now seeming to me to be more
like rap or rock and roll,
or it's just a form,
a thing where you play around with this kind of thing. And I am so, um,
literal minded. I'm so verbal minded. You know, Bob, Dylan's easy for me.
The stones are hard. You know, zap is easy, 20th century, classical's easy,
but just funk is hard for me. And it's the same kind of thing here.
It's really easy for me to say we are doing, um, uh,
the old fashion scientific inquiry, and this is a way falsfiable,
but there is something happening in our thinking.
That's really interesting that I had to have my daughter explain to me and the
New York times after I already knew you and watched you do it well, you've.
Always, you've always been a champion of science and reason, right?
And conspiracy theories for the most part fall in the face of science and
reason. And it, you don't want to be a buffoon. One wants to, there' a be fool,
but there's a poetic thing happening, but it's tricky. And you don't,
people don't wanna be a fool. Well, I'm a professional fool.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I don't mind being a fool mm-hmm <affirmative> and you
know, being selfeprecating and being a, a moron is part of being a comic.
It's fun. The,
the conspiracy theory world went south for me when I did a
television show about it. Right. I did that. Joe Rogan questions,
everything show Mmhmm. And I spent six, seven months doing this show.
And at the end of it, I was like, okay, I get it.
This is a bunch of unuckable white guys. <laugh>, that's what it really is.
Yeah. That's what I decided. I said, you know, I had a pit about it. I said,
do you want to,
the one thing you don't find when you are looking for Bigfoot black people,
<laugh>,
you're more likely to find Bigfoot than you are black eyes looking for Bigfoot.
It is a bunch of unuckable white dudes out camping and listen to what did you
hear that? What is that? You know, it's like, it's nonsense. Like you're,
you're wrapped up in this idea that there's a mystery and there's a something,
there's a thing, a quality about human beings, where we want to uncover secrets.
We want to be the person that finds out the truth because then your miserable
life. Now doesn't matter. The aliens are real, man. They're here.
And.
Aha, aha. The,
the Mo one of the best feelings we can get probably better than coming.
Is that feeling of aha. I understand.
I've gotten a revelation and we see this all the time. Detective shows,
you know, Sherlock Holmes, you know, nothing to do with police work.
Yeah. But there is a feeling that wouldn't it be nice if in this hour
I were able to figure something out. Yeah.
Because if you wanna understand string theory, you're not gonna do it an hour.
You're not gonna do.
It ever. <laugh> I, I don't think those guys understand it.
Even if they teach it precisely.
<Laugh>, let's take it easier. One, let's take a candle flame. Okay.
You're never gonna understand that. Right. Uh, studying that forever.
And there's, there's an area
conspiracy theories are exercising. The muscles of logic,
exercising, the muscles of skepticism,
playing around with the, with the haiku of if then,
if then playing around with, um,
what we feel about the government and other people and stuff like that.
And you're playing around with all of that in kind of a semi
safe zone.
And even watching you just do it here, where you, where you,
where you bang out that stuff and say,
this is the stuff I question what's coming out of that poetically.
Uh, and I thought, let's not even talk about whether we went to the moon or not.
What's coming out of your style of inquiry on that kind of thing.
Your style of skepticism is just fascinating and beautiful.
And I see the conspiracy thing as not so much a breaking down,
which I used to see a breaking down of science and reason,
but I see it as rather a, a creation of a new form of poetry.
That's weird. I don't know if I agree, but my.
Daughter just said, my daughter just says, you know,
I really like conspiracy theories. And I say to her, you know,
Paul McCartney is still.
Alive. Right. But you know, she's 14, your Ette.
So she's rebelling <laugh> you understand that? Right. You're a parent,
you know, it's like.
You may have just told me something really important. Yeah.
That was too dirt dumb to realize. That's the thing.
Here's the thing that it's like Neil gayman's daughter coming in, uh,
all goed out. Yeah. And Neil say to her, I ed this, you can't do this.
This is not the way you can rebel. You can't rebel against me like this.
You can't do with black hair and eyeshadow. You can't do it.
But yeah. Yeah.
Well, kids, you know, they, they find their own way and they,
they wanna express themselves. You know,
they want to exert pat hour over their world.